>> Steve Kinney: All right,
let's talk a little bit about Electron.
First, my name is Steve and
I am an engineer at SendGrid,
I work on a large React application for
creating HTML emails.
So I basically use modern day JavaScript
frameworks to write HTML from 1995.
I know way too much about
Outlook conditional tags.
I also wrote a book called Electron
In Action, which is super fitting,
given what we're talking about today.
I think last time we did this,
it was a very early draft of it.
But now they're our physical paper copies
that are in a box in my house that I can't
get rid of.
And if I didn't just bring
a carry-on here today,
I would have brought them all with
me to disperse them, but well.
Let's talk a little bit
about what Electron is,
since we're going to spend the next
six to eight hours talking about it.
The kind of high level
is Electron is kind of
a marriage between Chrome and
NodeJS, right?
Chrome, obviously we think about
the browser, we think about HTML and
CSS and the DOM and all those things.
So from Chrome, we get HTML support,
GPU acceleration,
because Node being a server side
framework, not so much on the graphics.
We get Blink, the rendering engine,
and V8, and then from Node,
we get a whole bunch of
stuff the browser can't do.
We get Filesystem access,
the ability to use Native modules
that are compiled C++ or C.
So together, we can do a whole bunch
of really interesting things and
create applications that you couldn't
create in either one, right?
In Node, you can't create any kind of
user interface for your application.
And in Chrome, you're in this very,
very safe browser sandbox,
so both of those have their
very necessary limitations.
Electron kind of combines the two.
So we can use both and create real,
full desktop applications that can do all
the stuff that we expect
desktop applications to do.
And then also have really great UIs.
Using the technologies that we
already know how to use for
building sophisticated
web user interfaces.
Awesome, so,
there's also some other advantages,
in the browser, we have a problem where,
it's not really a problem.
It's really for everyone's benefit,
that you can't, just like,
willy nilly call any server you want,
right?
We have cores and
other security policies in place that
stop us from calling third-party servers.
So if you wanted to write
a client-side Twitter client, right?
You couldn't just hit the Twitter API
directly, right, that's not allowed.
You'd have to talk to your own
server on the back end and
then from there,
proxy those requests to the Twitter API.
Get the results back from the Twitter API,
send them back to the client, so on and
so forth.
So you'd have to have both two
applications, a client side application,
and a server-side application.
With Electron applications,
they are effectively both together, so
you can actually just call
whatever APIs you want.
So it's stuff like cores and
other restrictions like that don't
exist in Electron applications.
You can just call it directly, which
really makes a lot of stuff a lot easier.
With client side applications, we're very
used to using something like Webpack, or
Rollup, or Browserify.
To kind of put in a module system,
because CS module still hasn't really,
officially shipped.
And in Node applications,
we can use require(...), again,
Electron is half Chrome,
half Node, best of both worlds.
So there's no need to wire
up a whole big build system.
We'll actually kind of use transpilers and
a very subtle build system
later in this course.
But it will be so subtle and
easy that you will barely notice that
we're using a build system, right?
Which will be really cool.
>> Steve Kinney: So you can do a bunch
of things, so you can use require.
In Node, we're used to being able to pull
in some of the Node Native modules like
reading and writing to the Filesystem.
In the browser, like I said before, we'd
use something like Webpack or Browserify.
Or something along those lines,
to create one just giant JavaScript file.
So we'd break stuff up in development, but
we'd have to have basically shipped one.
Or if we get into code splitting and
lazy loading on the client,
many JavaScript files that are loaded
synchronously, but effectively.
Kind of putting it all together
into one or more files.
In Electron,
we can actually just use require, with
the common JS module system from Node.
Even when we're writing
the user interface part.
So we can bring in anything
from the Node standard library,
we can bring in anything from NPM as well,
right?
Even, again, like database drivers,
anything along those lines,
are all fair game.
Even if you're in a context where you
think you're writing browser code,
you can still call it.
And we'll do that later on
in this course as well.
>> Steve Kinney: And so yeah, all sorts of
modules you can just pull them right in.
Whether you're in more of a server-like
environment or a client-like environment,
and we'll talk about those
two processes in a second.